https://www.zainrizvi.io/blog/the-interviewing-advice-no-one-shares/

= Introduction =

* Interviewing is a skill and anyone can learn it.

= Tip #1: Use recruiters to your advantage =

* The recruiter wants to work _with_ you. They know that you probably have poor
  interview prep skill, and are happy to help fix that flaw. Why discard strong
  candidates who can't interview well? It's not in their best interest. It's
  better for them to help candidates show their best selves when interviewing.
* Ask them questions like:
  - What should I do to prepare for the interview?
  - What are the company values that would be good to highlight during the
    interview?

= Tip #2: Go to real interviews for practice =

== Learn to deal with pressure ==

* You need to build up your interviewing skills. LeetCode is great, but it
  doesn't come close to the real thing.
* Real interviews teach you how to deal with the pressure. The first interview
  will kick your ass. So will the second. But once you get a few under your
  belt you'll get used to the adrenaline rush.
* I've found that I perform the best in the interviews where I don't care about
  the outcome. I'm much more relaxed and I can think faster. Now, even in
  important interviews I try to convince myself that I don't really care.

== Learn to answer the more ambiguous questions ==

* Write down all the questions you were asked, and consider how you could have
  responded better. Focus on the behavioral and design ones which ahve no clear
  right answer. Are there stories from your life you could have referenced?
  Wait a few days and look at them again. You'll find better answers.

== Stay open to serendipity ==

* As you do these interviews, you may discover that the "practice" company is
  actually interesting after all. Recruiters count on that.

= Tip #3: Be open to learning during the interview =

* Since then I've stopped hesitating before asking any question in an interview.
  Let your curiosity run free! Don't cage it! And as an interviewer, I can
  attest: sincere interest is always a good sign.

= Tip #4: Keep your skills sharp even when you’re not job hunting =

* James Whittaker recommends trying to get a job offer every year, just to make
  sure you can. It's an extremely liberating feeling knowing that even if you
  lose your job you'll be able to find another one quickly.

= Conclusion =

* What do all these tactics have in common? They eliminate your fear. The fear
  that holds you back from letting your best self out. Do them often enough and
  interview rooms will transform from a threatening jungle into Tarzan's
  playground.
