[[/index]]

= React =
React is an open-source, front end, JavaScript library for building user
interfaces or UI components. It is maintained by Facebook and a community of
individual developers and companies. React can be used as a base in the
development of single-page or mobile applications. However, React is only
concerned with state management and rendering that state to the DOM, so creating
React applications usually requires the use of additional libraries for routing.
React Router is an example of such a library.

== What are Components? ==
React code is made of entities called components. Components can be rendered to
a particular element in the DOM using the React DOM library. When rendering a
component, one can pass in values that are known as "props."

The two primary ways of declaring components in React is via functional
components and class-based components.

```
const Hello = (props) => <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;

class Hello extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    this.state = { name: props.name }
  }
}

ReactDOM.render(<Hello name="World" />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

== What is the Virtual DOM? ==
React creates an in-memory data-structure cache, computes the resulting
differences, and then updates the browser's displayed DOM efficiently. This
process is called reconciliation. This allows the programmer to write code as
if the entire page is rendered on each change, while the React libraries only
render subcomponents that actually change. This selective rendering provides a
major performance boost. It saves the effort of recalculating the CSS style,
layout for the page and rendering for the entire page.

== What are lifecycle methods? ==
Lifecycle methods use a form of hooking that allows the execution of code at set
points during a component's lifetime.

* shouldComponentUpdate allows the developer to prevent unnecessary
  re-rendering of a component by returning false if a render is not required.
* componentDidMount: is called once the component has "mounted" (the component
  has been created in the user interface, often by associating it with a DOM
  node). This is commonly used to trigger data loading from a remote source via
  an API.
* componentWillUnmount is called immediately before the component is torn down
  or "unmounted". This is commonly used to clear resource-demanding dependencies
  to the component that will not simply be removed with the unmounting of the
  component (e.g., removing any setInterval() instances that are related to the
  component, or an "eventListener" set on the "document" because of the presence
  of the component)
* render is the most important lifecycle method and the only required one in any
  component. It is usually called every time the component's state is updated,
  which should be reflected in the user interface.

== What are React Hooks? ==
Hooks are functions that let developers "hook into" React state and lifecycle
features from function components. Hooks don't work inside classes — they let
you use React without classes.

React provides a few built-in hooks like useState, useContext, useReducer and
useEffect. Others are documented in the Hooks API Reference. useState and
useEffect, which are the most used, are for controlling state and side effects
respectively.

== What are the rules of React Hooks? ==
There are rules of hooks which describe the characteristic code pattern that
hooks rely on.

* Hooks should only be called at the top level (not inside loops or if
  statements).
* Hooks should only be called from React function components,
  not normal functions or class components

== Resources ==
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(web_framework)
